README.md, before:

# MOFFlow: Flow Matching for Structure Prediction of Metal-Organic Frameworks

[![arXiv](https://img.shields.io/badge/arXiv-2410.17270-b31b1b.svg)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17270)

<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/pcu.gif" width="30%" />
  <img src="assets/etb.gif" width="30%" />
  <img src="assets/nbo.gif" width="30%" />
</p>

## Table of Contents
- [Installation](#installation)
  - [Clone repository](#clone-repository)
  - [Setup environment](#setup-environment)
  - [Setup .env file](#setup-env-file)
- [Dataset & checkpoints](#dataset--checkpoints)
- [Training](#training)
  - [Training from scratch](#training-from-scratch)
  - [Continue training from checkpoint](#continue-training-from-checkpoint)
- [Evaluation](#evaluation)
  - [RMSD](#rmsd)
  - [Property computation (with zeo++)](#property-computation-with-zeo)
- [📚 Citation](#-citation)

## 📌 Note
The following guidelines apply to the **`batch` version** of MOFFlow, as introduced in **Appendix D** of our paper. This version is a refactored implementation designed for **faster training**.

The experiments in the main paper were conducted using the original **`timebatch`** version, which you can access with:

```bash
git checkout timebatch
```

However, we recommend using the `batch` version, as it achieves convergence significantly faster — 1–2 days compared to about 1 week with timebatch.

## Installation

### Clone repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/nayoung10/MOFFlow.git # clone repo
cd MOFFlow
```

### Setup environment

```bash
mamba env create -f env.yml
mamba activate mofflow
pip install git+https://github.com/microsoft/MOFDiff.git
pip install -e .
```

For **property computation**, please install `zeo++` from [here](https://www.zeoplusplus.org/download.html). 

### Setup ```.env``` file

Create ```.env``` file with following entries. 
```bash
export PROJECT_ROOT=<root_dir>
export ZEO_PATH=<path_to_network_binary> # for property computation
```

## Dataset & checkpoints

You can download the dataset and checkpoints from [zenodo](https://zenodo.org/records/15187230).
Place the dataset files under `data/mof/cif_200_inf`. 

## Training

### Training from scratch

The following code starts training from scratch. All paths/directory information are in ```configs/paths.yaml```; modify as needed. 

```bash
python experiments/train.py experiment.wandb.name=<expname>
```

### Continue training from checkpoint

To continue training from ```<ckpt_path>``` in experiment ```<expname>```

```bash
python experiments/train.py \
    experiment.wandb.name=<expname> \
    experiment.warm_start=<ckpt_path> \
    +experiment.wandb.id=<run_id> \ # wandb run ID (optional)
    +experiment.wandb.resume=must # resume wandb run
```

## Evaluation 

### RMSD

To evaluate structure prediction accuracy via RMSD, run the following command.

```bash
# Adjust settings as needed
export MKL_NUM_THREADS=1 # adjust as needed
export NUMEXPR_NUM_THREADS=1
export OMP_NUM_THREADS=1

python experiments/evaluate.py
    --save_pt <path/to/predict.pt> \
    --num_samples <k> \ # inferred from data shape if not provided; use if k < k_generated
    --num_cpus <ncpu> \ # default to 48
```

### Property computation (with `zeo++`)

To compute structural properties (e.g., surface area, pore volume), run:

```bash
# Adjust settings as needed
export MKL_NUM_THREADS=1
export NUMEXPR_NUM_THREADS=1
export OMP_NUM_THREADS=1

python evaluation/property.py --cif_dir <inference_dir> --ncpu <num_cpus>
```

## 📚 Citation

If you find MOFFlow useful in your work, please consider citing the following:

```bibtex
@inproceedings{kim2024mofflow,
  title={MOFFlow: Flow Matching for Structure Prediction of Metal-Organic Frameworks},
  author={Kim, Nayoung and Kim, Seongsu and Kim, Minsu and Park, Jinkyoo and Ahn, Sungsoo},
  booktitle={The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations},
  year={2025},
  url={https://openreview.net/forum?id=dNT3abOsLo}
}
```

Our data preprocessing pipeline and benchmark data are adapted from the following works. Please consider citing them as well:

```bibtex
@inproceedings{
fu2024mofdiff,
title={{MOFD}iff: Coarse-grained Diffusion for Metal-Organic Framework Design},
author={Xiang Fu and Tian Xie and Andrew Scott Rosen and Tommi S. Jaakkola and Jake Allen Smith},
booktitle={The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations},
year={2024},
url={https://openreview.net/forum?id=0VBsoluxR2}
}
```

```bibtex
@article{boyd2019data,
  title={Data-driven design of metal--organic frameworks for wet flue gas CO2 capture},
  author={Boyd, Peter G and Chidambaram, Arunraj and Garc{\'\i}a-D{\'\i}ez, Enrique and Ireland, Christopher P and Daff, Thomas D and Bounds, Richard and G{\l}adysiak, Andrzej and Schouwink, Pascal and Moosavi, Seyed Mohamad and Maroto-Valer, M Mercedes and others},
  journal={Nature},
  volume={576},
  number={7786},
  pages={253--256},
  year={2019},
  publisher={Nature Publishing Group UK London}
}
```

Commit message:

Update README with predict instructions and remove experiments/inference.py

README.md, after:

# MOFFlow: Flow Matching for Structure Prediction of Metal-Organic Frameworks

[![arXiv](https://img.shields.io/badge/arXiv-2410.17270-b31b1b.svg)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17270)

<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/pcu.gif" width="30%" />
  <img src="assets/etb.gif" width="30%" />
  <img src="assets/nbo.gif" width="30%" />
</p>

## Table of Contents
- [Installation](#installation)
  - [Clone repository](#clone-repository)
  - [Setup environment](#setup-environment)
  - [Setup .env file](#setup-env-file)
- [Dataset & checkpoints](#dataset--checkpoints)
- [Training](#training)
  - [Training from scratch](#training-from-scratch)
  - [Continue training from checkpoint](#continue-training-from-checkpoint)
- [Evaluation](#evaluation)
  - [RMSD](#rmsd)
  - [Property computation (with zeo++)](#property-computation-with-zeo)
- [📚 Citation](#-citation)

## 📌 Note
The following guidelines apply to the **`batch` version** of MOFFlow, as introduced in **Appendix D** of our paper. This version is a refactored implementation designed for **faster training**.

The experiments in the main paper were conducted using the original **`timebatch`** version, which you can access with:

```bash
git checkout timebatch
```

However, we recommend using the `batch` version, as it achieves convergence significantly faster — 1–2 days compared to about 1 week with timebatch.

## Installation

### Clone repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/nayoung10/MOFFlow.git # clone repo
cd MOFFlow
```

### Setup environment

```bash
mamba env create -f env.yml
mamba activate mofflow
pip install git+https://github.com/microsoft/MOFDiff.git
pip install -e .
```

For **property computation**, please install `zeo++` from [here](https://www.zeoplusplus.org/download.html). 

### Setup ```.env``` file

Create ```.env``` file with following entries. 
```bash
export PROJECT_ROOT=<root_dir>
export ZEO_PATH=<path_to_network_binary> # for property computation
```

## Dataset & checkpoints

You can download the dataset and checkpoints from [zenodo](https://zenodo.org/records/15187230).
Place the dataset files under `data/mof/cif_200_inf`. 

## Training

### Training from scratch

The following code starts training from scratch. All paths/directory information are in ```configs/paths.yaml```; modify as needed. 

```bash
python experiments/train.py experiment.wandb.name=<expname>
```

### Continue training from checkpoint

To continue training from ```<ckpt_path>``` in experiment ```<expname>```

```bash
python experiments/train.py \
    experiment.wandb.name=<expname> \
    experiment.warm_start=<ckpt_path> \
    +experiment.wandb.id=<run_id> \ # wandb run ID (optional)
    +experiment.wandb.resume=must # resume wandb run
```

## Predict

To predict MOF structures for the test set, run the command below. You can adjust the number of generated samples per test example. For more details, see the inference settings in `configs/inference.yaml`.

```bash
python experiments/predict.py \
    experiment.wandb.name=<expname> \
    inference.num_samples=<num_samples> \   # default to 1
    inference.interpolant.sampling.num_timesteps=<timesteps> \ # default to 50
    inference.ckpt_path='${paths.ckpt_dir}/last.ckpt' \   # default
    inference.inference_dir='${paths.log_dir}/inference' \  # default 
```

## Evaluation 

### RMSD

To evaluate structure prediction accuracy via RMSD, run the following command.

```bash
# Adjust settings as needed
export MKL_NUM_THREADS=1 # adjust as needed
export NUMEXPR_NUM_THREADS=1
export OMP_NUM_THREADS=1

python experiments/evaluate.py
    --save_pt <path/to/predict.pt> \
    --num_samples <k> \ # inferred from data shape if not provided; use if k < k_generated
    --num_cpus <ncpu> \ # default to 48
```

### Property computation (with `zeo++`)

To compute structural properties (e.g., surface area, pore volume), run:

```bash
# Adjust settings as needed
export MKL_NUM_THREADS=1
export NUMEXPR_NUM_THREADS=1
export OMP_NUM_THREADS=1

python evaluation/property.py --cif_dir <inference_dir> --ncpu <num_cpus>
```

## 📚 Citation

If you find MOFFlow useful in your work, please consider citing the following:

```bibtex
@inproceedings{kim2024mofflow,
  title={MOFFlow: Flow Matching for Structure Prediction of Metal-Organic Frameworks},
  author={Kim, Nayoung and Kim, Seongsu and Kim, Minsu and Park, Jinkyoo and Ahn, Sungsoo},
  booktitle={The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations},
  year={2025},
  url={https://openreview.net/forum?id=dNT3abOsLo}
}
```

Our data preprocessing pipeline and benchmark data are adapted from the following works. Please consider citing them as well:

```bibtex
@inproceedings{
fu2024mofdiff,
title={{MOFD}iff: Coarse-grained Diffusion for Metal-Organic Framework Design},
author={Xiang Fu and Tian Xie and Andrew Scott Rosen and Tommi S. Jaakkola and Jake Allen Smith},
booktitle={The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations},
year={2024},
url={https://openreview.net/forum?id=0VBsoluxR2}
}
```

```bibtex
@article{boyd2019data,
  title={Data-driven design of metal--organic frameworks for wet flue gas CO2 capture},
  author={Boyd, Peter G and Chidambaram, Arunraj and Garc{\'\i}a-D{\'\i}ez, Enrique and Ireland, Christopher P and Daff, Thomas D and Bounds, Richard and G{\l}adysiak, Andrzej and Schouwink, Pascal and Moosavi, Seyed Mohamad and Maroto-Valer, M Mercedes and others},
  journal={Nature},
  volume={576},
  number={7786},
  pages={253--256},
  year={2019},
  publisher={Nature Publishing Group UK London}
}
```
